# uCal: Calendar from own Shortcuts
#### Live Demo: [ucal.glitch.me]
#### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>
#### Description:
The project I choose was built for helping my girlfriend making her roster for work.
She normally just gets a monthly table with an abbreviation per day for the different shifts.
To help her to quickly generate entries for her real calendar, I wanted to implement a web app, where she can make her own "library of shortcuts" with calendar information, associated with the abbreviation (or as I call it: shortcut), and then get a calendar file (.ics file) per month from that library and the given abbreviations.

The web app contains two pages, where you can toggle between. When you first start the project, you want to switch to the library view, where you find a form where you input the shortcut and the associated information (subject, begin and end or all-day, location, description). Then you add that to "your library". After finishing creating the library, you can save to reuse it (as a custom file extension .ucal, which is just the data in an JSON format). Now you can switch back to the calendar view and select the right month (you can change it with the arrows or by inputting a string in the MM/YYYY format). Select the shortcut you want to insert, then click in the appropriate day. You can add multiple shortcuts per day. You can delete all shortcuts of the day, too. When you are finished, save the calendar as an .ics file and import it in your calendar program of choice, like Apple Calendar or Google Calendar. You should see all your events at the right days with the information you filled in. Even all-day events or over-night events (where the end time is before the start time) are shown correctly. Next month when you get your new roster, just upload that .ucal file of yours, reuse the library and make the new .ics file for your calendar in no time.

For the style of the page, I use Bootstrap with some custom adjustments (see the styles.css file). It is basic but effective.
The functionality is mostly written in javascript by myself (see the script.js file) and is completely client-side, so once loaded, everything happens in the browser, even generating the .ucal and .ics files, no data is sent to a server. So, everything must be saved by the user for longtime storage, whence the data will be lost if the side refreshes or the tab is closed. If you want to save multiple months, just save every month as its own .ics file.
For generating the .ics file, I use a minimal library (link in the script.js file), which also implements the save function fore wider browser support.
Symbols in the web app are part of the Bootstrap Icon set, but the favicon and the icon for Apple Home App are designed by me.

Some additional information, all inputs are checked by regular expressions, implemented by javascript. The data inputted is saved in a javascript object, changing it by adding items cascades visual changes like activating the calendar and adding the shortcut in the HTML selection, so everything is dynamically and always up-to-date. But if you refresh or close the side, the variable will be reset, that is why you can save the library, and must be with every addition change if you want to keep it. Same as with the calendar view, if you change the month after you added shortcuts in a day, you will be prompted that changing the month will delete the data, since the shortcuts are only saved in textareas per day, and the whole calendar container is replaced when the month is changed, so all textareas are deleted. But this is on purpose, so only the shortcuts you see will be saved in the .ics file. The calendar view is generated dynamically thanks to the datetime library, as a side note. There are additional cool things and life improving features. I tried to make everything as simple as possible, but also as useful and functional as possible. Some stuff is totally over-engineered, but it was fun and I learned a lot.